## Minutes for Privacy TF - Tuesday 29 June 2021

* Welcome and intros
* Making the repo public
* Working process
  * Starting point document
* Merge PR: https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/4
* Open issues: https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues
* Call schedule going forward

Present: Dan, Christine, Robin, Pete, Don, Jonathan, Amy, Jeffrey, Sam, Wendy

## Intros from Everyone

## Working process

Dan: this group is here to write/edit a document. Volunteers for co-chairs welcome.

Dan: using tools and process that we use in the TAG. Work on docs should happen in PRs. Work on debating should happen in issues. Agenda for calls will focus around issues and PRs. Try and have a production mentality using that mechanism. We could try that out today, there's an open PR from Don. We could take a look at that, record consensus that we merge it and merge it.

## Making the repo public

Dan: I can go ahead and do that right now if we're all happy to do that, to create transparency. Anyone have any issue with that? [does so]

Robin: are you intending to announce it?

Dan: happy to send a message to www-tag... more when we're a bit further along. Now can talk about it in PING. Have given TAG an update about it. Balance with making sure we have a document to talk about before announcing.

## Starting point document

Dan: now we have two docs, one from Robin and one from Jeffrey. How do we get to one?

Pete: process issue, the privacy threat model is part of the PING charter. 

Jeffrey: we talked about the threat model splitting into two pieces wehre this group will own the principles that are the first sections, and PING will keep owning the threat model itself, the details of what's allowed/not allowed. Not a solid decision, general direction.

Dan: is than a issue in a repo? Let's open it. Which parts of which documents are being slurped into this new document. Focus should be principles. Thoughtw e'd have some discussion of threat model in this document as well. I thought some part of the threat model document would remain as a PING deliverable and some part of what Robin wrote would remain as a blog post that Robin does.. 

Christine: helpful if we could roughly agree an outline of what our document might look like? Might tell us where the different bits slot in

Dan: yes, would somebody like to make a first pass?

Robin: an outline of both documents? which parts get moved into which?

Christine: putting the two aside for a moment, and say what do we think our document should cover. What are the key pieces? Why are we doing it, what's the purpose. 

Pete: happy as a focussing function to come up with a rough sketch of that, not a final version, something to iterate on.

Dan: one of the documents that I see this living alongside of is the [web platform design principles](). This is pretty straightforward document outline. One paragraph of intro and then we're right into stating principles and having supporting information about those principles. We segment them into different areas; principles behind design of web apis, high level, api design across languages, CSS, JS, JS APIs, surface concerns, WebIDL .... Each section has a number of principles. If we're focussing on principles it makes sense for me to have this doc mirror that structure. Also makes it easier for spec developers to digest. One reason to have it is we want to add it to our issue template for TAG reviews so when we ask have you read the design principles, we can also ask have you read the privacy principles document. And that also means it needs to line up with the security and privacy questionnaire. One thing the questionnaire doesn't do is set down principles, it just asks questions. There are implicit principles in here but I'd like to do after the fact is have another process where we go trhough as part of the regular editorial process for self-review questionnaire is go bck and make links to the privacy principles. From that perspective i think it makes sense for the privacy principles to be a pretty flat

Wendy: TAG design principles were generated from work done before the TAG to give them a concrete backing. One of the challenges in splitting the document from the threats is the debate can get very abstract. What guidence we can set to keep those principles focussed on the goals we have of building a shared Web. 

Jeffrey: looking at the docs we have, and I like starting with Robin's definitions. Really useful, even though they're not principles. The threat model's high level threats section is based on [rfc6973](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6973) which lists a bunch of kinds of privacy problems. We could structure the document matching those as topics, and write down what we think the web should do on each of those topics. 

Robin: that would work well. Sort of in a similar vein of staying with a flat structure overall. 

Dan: tried to reflect that:

Tentative document outline:

1. Intro: Why are we doing it, what's the purpose?
2. Definitions
3. Threat Model's high level threats, based roughly on RFC6973
4. Principles - structured according to threat model categorization

Robin: is the idea that the principles are more about what can be technically implemented? In the definitions, some things cannot be decided readily by a computer in the given state of the web. Is the idea that we might have definitions that could be more broadly applicable for a broader conversaion? But the threat model brings it down to something closer to where the web is without contraining ourselves. The current one is not necessarily fully applicable to where the web is, but more in that area, and then the principles are more directly applicable to how you build?

Jeffrey: I think we should match the ethical web principles, where there's a lot we could not implement in a browser. Difference between this doc and the privacy threat model is here's waht the browser enforces . Principles for the web and we'll enforce them when we can but they're still the right principles even if we can't.

Dan: my feeling is one of the main consumers of this doc are people working on specs. Partially to set out a common language and common understanding of what privacy means on the web so when we talk.. for instance the fact that in the discussion between TAG and some groups on specific privacy technologies the issue of orign came up. It seemed like we were talking cross purposes with each other because of using different definitions. This is the reason I thought it's a good idea to have one place, we agree on a defiintion we can point to. That can help to frame a better discussion about any new technology being developed so we can at least talk using the same terms and conceptual framework. But it is about people developing new web tech, rather than trying to constrain what browsers do.

Robin: I think what you said matches what Jeffrey described, not incompatible

Christine: principles, we should not be focussing solely on what can nor cannot be enforced by a browser. What do we want spec authors to do to design their specs with privacy, what are the principles they need to embed? the threat model work will inform that, tells us the threats out there. But want to be careful to keep that our focus.

Dan: yes, that's why I think that jeffrey was suggesting any discussion of threat model in this document should be at a high level?

Jeffrey: yeah. Tension between focussing on spec authros who are need to be thinking about what browsers can enforce, and on describing the overall principles that guide what we think the web should do in general

Christine: because you think spec authors are only worried about .. are you saying the reason to have that focus is spec authors are going to make decisions based on what the browsers can stop them from doing? They'll try to get away with everything, only thing they care about is getting caught by browsers?

Jeffrey: spec authors are constraining browser behaviour, but can't define what websites do with the new feature. Spec authors are focussed on what they can enforce in the browser. Not trying to get away with things, but trying to prevent websites from getting away with things and need to think about that. Like EWP we acn have this document focus more broadly - how the web should behave, including website behaviour and maybe even browser behaviour. Useful to let this doc be more broad than say the focus of the threat model doc which is here's what we tell spec authors to enforce.

Robin: if we agree on content of both documents, copying and pasting between them shouldn't be overwhelmingy difficult. I like Jeffrey's proposed boundary, but it doesn't have to be set in stone forever.

Dan: other logistics question - I think that we are  going to end up with a doc with two editors on it Jeffrey and Robin. Is that okay with both of you? Is that what other people think? In reality there is always a lot of contributions from all parties, through the PR process. Not a matter of the burden of the work, but who are the people who merge the PRs or are responsible for having merged the PRs.  So who is going to create it?

Jeffrey: it looks like we have an outline

[bikeshedding (pun intended) ensues]

## Merging Don's PR

Dan: [PR on the readme](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/4)

Don: I came up with a couple of other possible constituencies that would be great to hear from. I put in behavioural economists because a lot of what people do on privacy has to do with incentives to motivate people to share certain kinds of information. Some of the principles of behavioural economics have been applied to make privacy worse, but there are ways to apply it to make privacy better. And then user researchers. We have already to talk to users, but when I was at Mozilla there was a really good set of user research on what peoples personal information sharing norms really are. I believe a lot of other related work hs been done in other locations including academia and other browsers. I think a lot of this research shows there's no one set of users from the pov of privacy. There are people who have really different perspectives, so the more we try to build one set of privacy UX or tooling for everybody the less well we'll reflect that user research. It's a constituency that would be helpful to hear from.

Dan: no issue with either of those.

Jeffrey: no objection to listening to those groups. We're edging into .. our list has two groups of groups. Constituenceis to represent, and sets of expertise we need to listen to about those constituencies. These addditions are areas of expertise and we might want to split the list to distinguish those.

Dan: good point, question is how do we ensure we are hearing from those expertise, and the constituenceis? one thing to say we really want input from these types of expertise but we have to have a plan.. when we were writing the EWP I spent a fair amount of time going out and taking to tech ethicists. I'm not an ethical philosopher, we don't spend our time only looking at tech ethics so to get that feedback. That was an adhoc plan, but it was a plan. Going out and doing that kind of canvassing to get those people to com eand have a look and leave their feedback would be the first step, or the least we can do. Another could be to run a session at TPAC to bring wider community in that way. Different types of outreach we acn do, to bring the doc to those ocmmunuities in different ways. Agree with what you're saying Jeffrey, maybe there are two types of constituences.. want to make a pass in the PR?

Jeffrey: Merge this, then I send another to split the list

Dan: people okay with merging? [merged]

... That's a demo of how I see the process going in general. Github issues and PRs, also regular calls.

## Call schedule

Dan: we probably want to have weekly calls at this point. Looks like wednesday at this time is acceptable to enough. Works for everybody?

Pete: I can rearrange some stuff for Wednesday

Dan: will put on a calendar

## AOB

Pete: not sure I understand what goes in what document. I'll write something up and share it and people can let me know.

Dan: we can continue the discussion on slack. Keep in mind that the slack is only semi-public. People who can see it are people who have been invited to the TAG slack. Includes all current and previous TAG members and some other people eg. at W3C, and for one-time TAG events. Prefer technical discussion in github. Not a hard and fast rule. Or we can use the w3c privacy slack to engage with the wider w3c community. I want to wait until we have more for people to look at before we do that. 

Jeffrey: could see if we can get on the IETFs human rights protocol considerations agenda for ietf111 or 112

Christine: ask for time at 111 to talk abut the ethical principles and flag the work we're doing, I don't imagine we'll be ready to have a robust discussion in a month. Later we acn ask for a slot.

Dan: Great to hear IETF are having that

Jonathan: shared Pete's thoughts on document contents, but we can discuss.

Wendy: excited to see this moving

## CLOSE
