# TAG Privacy TF Call

Present: Jeffrey, Christine, Pete, Amy, Robin, Dan, Wendy, Sam

## [Collective Principle](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/130)

Robin: revisited - made it active [voice] - in the process of rewriting also split collective privacy and group privacy. Added small subsection describing group privacy... Focused principle on that sometimes it's better for groups to make privacy decisions. 

Christine: I see two levels about protecting group privacy. Two important aspects. Is there a third? Those two aspects are generally focussed on whether you're a member of a group or the existence of a group and its activities. This third categoryw hich isn't yet recognised in data protection law, but is being talked about. We only want to raise it as an idea.. that one of the problems with group privacy is that not all individuals may share the same risks or expectations of privacy so you can get conflict with group privacy. A typical example - family gathering. Photos taken. One family member is happy to put every photo on facebook and other family members are not. 

Robin: That's true. Also what Tess was getting at with the upload all your contacts thing. Should find a way of weaving that in. Need a name for it.

Dan: something around consent? Within a group?

Robin: not necessarily.. it's disupted.. getting everyone in th group to agree to it would be one solution, you oculd use consent of every individual, but I don't think the problem is necessarily consent. Problem is I can make a disclosure about myself that discloses osmething about others

Dan: something about consensus? 

Robin: consensus based.. we all agree to share our picture but someone says no...

Dan: expectations... in the family gathering if there had been a history of family gatherings that were happening for 5 years and at each one someone took pictures and put them on facebook and everyone though it was great, and there was a general expectation that was okay. That would be a different situation than someone out of the blue deciding to put pictures on facebook that hadn't been part of the common practice. I'm throwing things out there.. 

Jeffrey: I think it is a group consent situation. It might make more sense to treat it in our section on consent than in the section on group privacy. Like other kinds of consent there are cases where the consent can be implicit, or legitimate interest, or other reasons to use the group's data, but in a lot of these cases the service is relying on a persons consent, possibly inferred by the fact they chose a picture, chooser based consent, and they really ought to be thinking about the group sinterest rather tahn that individual decision. Talking about that in the consent section makes more sense than in here. 

Robin: something worth saying in the section on consent, but the problem is something that should be surfaced elsewhere?

Christine: surface the problem, I don't think we have to solve it

Wendy: you describe group levels of group privacy and I'm trying to find names for them to keep the concepts distinct. First one membership.. what would you call the second? Groupness isn't a word..

Jeffrey: secrecy of the group vs secrecy of the membership

Robin: self-constituted groups and algorithmically determined gruops are distinguished [here](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-030-82786-1_6) Slight problem with the second one, you can impose categories on the world without algorithms. I could try some namings based on this.. or we could reuse.. 

Wendy: I'm distinguishing the membership in either of those is one aspect of privacy, and the other is the privacy of the group as an entity, however it is determined

Robin: that paper also has that.. "their" privacy vs "its" privacy. Doesn't read very fluidly.

Pete: trying to map the third paragraph back to the impact of this document. Mostly about groups are good when people in the groups can control the groups.. but we don't have any role for anything like that in w3c or any standards body. Ombudsmen position? How do you implement?

Robin: very good and complicated question. You're referring to last paragraph in .. 1.2.1 Group privacy. We don't have that. I'm not sure how we could make that. People shouldn't be packed into group without their knowledge. Trying to stay descriptive and not prescriptive. 

Pete: knowing that you're part of a group doesn't suggest you have ability to control being part of it or how data is used. Seems like this needs to bite somewhere.

Robin: it's a statement of the problem. I'm not claiming we have solved. States the fact that if you put it to a group thrhough mechanisms you don't udnerstand or cannot see, all the agitation around self governing approaches, consent, none of that can work. We don't have a way of telling people these things becuase it happened invisibly, without access to the people. The traiditional ways of managing this don't work. I'm not sure there's more to say than that in this section. I do think collective decision making can help here. You have to get people together and say okay is it okay to put people into groups according to method xyz. We have civil society and researchers.. that's a solution space

Sam: how is metadata about group membership different from any other metadata about people? Why it's own section?

Robin: about the group itself. The strava example is privacy problems surfacing from aggregated behaviour of the group in which there is no reasonable way to reidentify individuals, but is revealing things that are real problems at the group level that could cause harm to people without being identified, like attacking a base because it was discovered.

Jeffrey: Useful for designing web apis to have this paragraph in here. It highlights that its useful to make it legiable what groups you're in. Talking with ?? folks yesterday.. [Timnit had an article](https://twitter.com/timnitGebru/status/1503494523522936832) about data brokers and thew ay you can get targeted for ads because the advertiser puts you into a group. Making that legible to civil society groups, even if illegible to individuals who see it in the browser, is useful and should be designed into the system.

Robin: helpful. I could fix these issues directly and land it? 

Jeffrey: I think its working pretty well when it exists in majority browsers, sites are not incentivised to use same site bounce tracking or javascript techinques to get the information. Allows browsers to opt out and be able to have an effect. Seems to be doing what it was meant to do.

Robin: if you go to one of the major sites that uses this like using firefox you get bounce tracking, you don't get opted out.

Jeffrey: makes it worth the site working around it..

Robin: if apple opted out of ping by default they'd get bounce tracking.. ping is not a privacy enhancing feature

Jeffrey: was justified as a performance improvement.. if a small enough people opt out its privacy enhancing..

Robin: opting out was part of the value. Privacy part doesn't work because if people do opt out the sites stop using it. 

Jeffrey: pointing out it didn't have the advertised privacy improvement is fair

Robin: can rephrase

## [Suggest removing "principle re influence and manipulation"](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/138)

Wendy: this principle wasn't a distinct principle, but ideas that should be inserted elsewhere. 

Jeffrey: seems fine with me. We can add it back when we find a place to put what we do want to say

Dan: merge

## [first go at reworking private data section into discrete principals](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/133)

Pete: I saw Jeffrey's summary of open issues.. wasn't sure how to integrate that

Jeffrey: we had a week of brainstomring of everything we want the document to cover, that was the result. Anything from tha tlist we missed we should do. I dn't think it applies to any current PRs

Pete: the PR I have is less substantive and less structural. Lets flatten it out. Just reorg the existing principles section.  If that reorg is appealing I can wait for new text to land.

Jeffrey: list on slack was not a suggested organisation. This PR is completely independant. Just to make sure we don't forget anything.

Pete: a suggestion is to close or freeze this, wait until we add new text from new principles, doens't make sense to reorg while we have new principles waiting to land

Dan: wouldn't make sense to land this and build on top of it?

Pete: not about new text, about combining sections, not having nested structure, checkboxy..

Dan: I like that. Inclined to try to land it.

Pete: before friday I can get this into a mergeable state, not adding new principles, but using ones already in the document.

Dan: makes sense

Jeffrey: +1





