# TAG Privacy Task Force Minutes - 5 jan 2022

## [Issues](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues)

Robin: either we close, agenda for discussion soon, or after FPWD. AGreement of what we want to hit before FPWD.

Dan: so items with no additional label are after FPWD

Jeffrey: I'll add a milestone for after FPWD

Pete: if we do all the philosophising and not the here's how it impacts the web for the first version we're not doing..

Jeffrey: we've done some of how it impacts the web already. We're not kicking off concrete effects post fpwd, just things we need more discussion on from a wider group or we want to come back to after we've got the rest of the doc in better shape

Dan: not putting things off that are .. are there specific items you'd like to see us get to before we issue a fpwd?

Pete: I expect this will get all sorts of abstract conversation and contentious discussion after fpwd

Robin: we are doing some of both. There is some 'philosophical' stuff that will get kicked down the road becuase we don't think we can solve it right now

### [default privacy boundary](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/1)

Robin: big nd complex and we're not going to solve it quickly. Propose kicking it down the road.

Jeffrey: issue in the doc that we need to refine this section on this topic. We can let fpwd reviewers opine on that

### [address device owners](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/2)

Dan: about enterprise..

Don: as well as people who are CIOs of their family

Jeffrey: the worry for families is things like parents who don't like their gay children, as a concrete example

Dan: this is another one to put off after fpwd... competing issues..

Jeffrey: I'd like to agenda+ this

Dan: worth having wording discussing competing issues, other issues that are real. From an enterprise perspective the TAG already pushed back on the managed device api on the basis of it doesn't figure into the design of the web. I'm less sympathetic to the notion that we need to build into our thinking on privacy... but the family issue is one that is relevant. Something we should include some wording on.

Wendy: in the thinking about prep for first draft, think about how we call out open issues that we plan to address. Noting there's a big issue around device ownership and usership could help

Nick: could we have this in the threat model, even if we don't have an answer yet

Robin: agree, even if we have no idea how to mitigate

### [clarify topics](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/7)

Dan: I think we did this and this can be closed

Nick: there's no reference to the questionnaire or the threat model document

Robin: I'll open another issue

### [types of API](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/41)

Dan: this came out of a conversation with alex russell... getUserMedia can uniquely identify any device, enough to completely fingerprint a user vs other apis that you might have to invoke several times in order to build up a fingerprinting profile from data. Is this something that we should include? Further discussion?

Jeffrey: worth at least listing some categories. We need to be more careful about that immediately identify something and fingerprinting over time limits on how fast that happens. Limits are something I wanted to put in the threat model document but we've never actually come up with more precise limits.

Dan: maybe we should not close this, but after fpwd?

Jeffrey: another one we want to call out in the document itself so people reading fpwd can give us feedback on it. I'll create a new label.

Nick: can we get a better title?

Dan: we need text in the document that discusses this topic, not all APIs are equal

Nick: categorising different privacy risks of apis?

Dan: nt about categorising.. raising issue that not all apis are equal when it comes to their..

Robin: discussing different privacy risks of apis?

Nick: fine with that

### [paradigms for data use](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/11)

Jeffrey: we need this

Robin: not sure if this is listing other views or agreeing on what we feel. I'm okay closing it.

Dan: we did say on july 21 about bringing something into draft..

Robin: it hasn't happened, we've shifted away from a landscape review to something more opinionated. How we approach this document has shifted such that I'm not sure we would want this

Nick: the current draft has a very specific contextual integrity appraoch which I raised before is too narrow, doesn't capture the things we had in mind. 

Robin: this issue was about listing a bunch of stuff more than broadening

Dan: is what Nick talked about captured in a different issue. If we close this are we going to lose that.

Robin: this is separate. We should document it.

Dan: let's close this

### [TAG style guide](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/15)

Dan: this can be after fpwd. We've done some but need to check it after

### [contextual integrity](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/22)

Dan: I opened this but we've already captured it, we can close this

### [Document data minimisation](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/23)

Dan: do we already have this?

Robin: I do'nt think so. This is worth doing but not urgent. But important techinque for improving things.

Jeffrey: I think it's a one sentene princniple about minimising the data to what is needed.

Dan: if it's small we should agenda plus

Robin: we  can try, it has to be broader than APIs though.

Dan: I wrote something a long time ago on data minimisation, I don't know if it's relevant now

### [multi party consent](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/24)

Jeffrey: agenda+

### [abstract text](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/25)

Robin: we addressed some of this but wanted to move some content to the intro

Dan: agenda+

### [Definitions 2.1 to 2.4](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/26)

Robin: agenda+ this.. I did some of this. I can check I did all of it.

### [Review sections one by one](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/31)

Robin: let's push that off

Dan: doesn't this need to get reorganised once we figure out the new organisation?

Jeffrey: I think this is the blocker for fpwd. This is the issue that says we are ready. we'l have to update the list of sections but we still need to get all of them reviewed. Just leave it open.

### [3.1 unwanted same site recognition](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/34)

Robin: both editorial and substantive... 

Jeffrey: agenda+ it.. I think it's done but we need to double check. It has both editorial and substantive pieces

### [opt in, consent, opt out, global ontrols](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/35)

Robin: agenda+

### [what an we tell websites as opposed to web browsers](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/39)

Jeffrey: same as 62

Dan: I'll close it

### [discussing solutions](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/42)

Robin: I think yes

Dan: absolutely. Don't we? We do

Robin: also part of 62

Jeffrey: 62 talks about what user agents can practically do and this is how to do it. In the reorganise the document issue I think I added a section on practically how to accomplish some principles

Robin: [summarily closes]

Dan: where does the work happen? Folded into 89.

### [3.1 unwanted same site recognition and cookie matching](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/49)

Dan: could we ask Lukasz to suggest some text?

### [3.3 Sensitive information disclosure](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/50)

Dan: Jeffrey said it's a todo... 

Jeffrey: I haven't done the todo. There are a couple of examples that should go into the doc. No reason to wait.

### [Meme version](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/58)

Dan: ..... post fpwd

### [Add user agent awareness to obviousness language](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/60)

Robin: there was a PR for this that was merged

Don: that's good. The qualify user agent responsibility one looks like it closes it so close this issue

### [WebAdv success criteria](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/61)

Robin: I haven't incorporated all of this but think we should for fpwd

### [distinguish the 'truth'..](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/62)

Robin: work is happening in 89 but I think we should keep it open

Jeffrey: we need to eventually go throgh everything and make sure we should distinguish the two but not something that should block fpwd

### [signal users don't want unwanted profiling](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/63)

Robin: is this the eternal debate about how we know a default is good to turn on because users have made some affirmative choice?

Jeffrey: Pete and Christine added stuff about users don't expect to profiled etc because list list list, the list appeared in more than on eplace

Pete: fine to remove that list

Don: some of these signals might be imposed by a middle box. Amazon euro will let you do some of this stuff, or a vpn box, or a sysadmin. Could be users signall, person who set up computer signalling or piece of network infrastructure user is not aware of

Dan: shall we close it or post fpwd to look at in more detail? We could include language that pulls out those issues

Don: I can make a note in the issue and we can defer it

### [citations for effects of unwanted profiling](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/66)

Dan: there was something merged

Robin: Don provided another reference. Worth adding that. 

Dan: yeah this is simple enough

### [FRIES](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/68)

Robin: defer. Would like a more open discussion. Also ties to stuff Jeffrey was saying about prompting, good collaboration potential there.

### [principles by category](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/70)

Dan: overtaken by 89?

Robin: yeah

### [cross-device tracking](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/71)

Nick: I think we could add it to cross context recognition section. Can assign it to me.

### [safety systems](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/73)

Robin: can wait

Jeffrey: I was going to write something.. included it in 89.. I'm motivated to write something

Robin: so agenda+

### [origin sovereignty](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/79)

Robin: punt this

### [authorised agents?](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/81)

Robin: good discussion and plans to do something, just not right now

Jeffrey: something we should add an issue inside the doc so people know to tell us about it? Or figure out a place for it and not fill it in yet?

Don: trusted agent/intermediary, any service that has the same duty of care to the user that a user agent does but it isn't in the position of a user agent from the pov of software. Your trusted intermediary has to act in your interest like your browser does but their not running on your client. Jeffrey pointed out that the maintainer of an ad blocker filter list is a good exaple of this category. If a user is using a servie that is intended to implement their content blocking preferences then that service is expected to be a trusted intermediary. This is obviously going to be controversial with real world ad blockers. Going to be important for other kinds of trusted intermediaries. Should it be up to a service to say they are acting in acordance to same obligations of user agents, so user agent can facilitate?

Robin: add issue to document in user agent section

### [surveillance vs capture](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/83)

Robin: can wait

### [competition vs privay](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/84)

Robin: this keeps coming up. I wrote 3500 words that I do not think should go into this document. Happy to close or postpone. Mention that we're not addressing it.

Dan: leave until after fpwd. We could be saying something about. Maybe we need a stated position from the perspective of this task force. Review Robin's words.

Robin: leave it open.. decide based on fpwd feedback..

Jeffrey: could ethical web principles..? they're more broad.. saying things are in tension.. address the tension rather than saying one is over the other.. 

Don: some combinations of privacy laws, regulations, regulator budgets that can have pro competitive effects, and some combinations that can have anti competitive effects. We have to be clear and say that both privacy law and competition law are written in different ways and have different levels of resources applied to enforcing them. 

Pete: I vote to sidestep it. Doesn't seem beneficial

Dan: I can transfer this to ewp..

Amy: there are overlapping issues there

Don: a primary criticism is that we wrote this privacy thing and it's an anticompetitive problem. A brief mention of competition law and that we've considered it and there is an interaction, we could say discuss that elsewhere

Pete: no objetion if it's just a pointer to discuss laws about privacy and competition elsewhere

Dan: we don't have consensus on inluding or migrating, we cna't put it on agenda for fpwd, so lets put it after fpwd

Jeffrey: reminding me of sentene about tradeoffs between privacy and breaking web use cases. In many or most cases you can get both - similarly you can get both competition and privacy. Saying that would be the right way to handle it.

### [cohort targeting](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/85)

Robin: I think this will be handled by 89. Can leave post fpwd to check.

### [deidentified data](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/86)

Robin: low hanging fruit, agenda+

### [FIPS](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/87)

Jeffrey: Christine wrote something useful that I haven't fully integrated.. whatever Christine suggested. agenda+

### [reprompt after no](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/issues/90)

Nick: I think that can be addressed later



