# TAG Privacy Task Force Minutes - 27 April 2022

Present: Dan, Jeffrey, Pete, Amy, Tess, Wendy, Don, Christine, Sam, Nick

Dan: Robin said he's happy with [the draft](). Are there additional PRs to get in before we release the FPWD?

Nick: what did you mean by happy? I have lots of changes and comments..

Dan: can you live with it?

## [PR 154](https://github.com/w3ctag/privacy-principles/pull/154)

Tess: not a question of is any of this text final. Is it good enough that you wouldn't be hideously embarassed putting it in front of other people?

Nick: as long as we're clear that's the threshold we're going with

Tess: typical threshold for fpwd is is enough of it there that lawyers who are doing some kind of patent assessment do that? does it cover the scope? But that's not relelvant here. Threshold is is anything terrible. Anything truly embarassing? We know it's not done.

Nick: thtat's a good way to think about it. one set of conditions could be we think it's going to be a politicaly sensitive document that our criteria could be we won't include anything where we have concerns or objections. I don't know if we need to have such a high bar. I don't think it's embarassing, but I understand if we wanted to say something sensitive on its way to a statement we should not include areas where we're going to have concern later.

Jeffrey: we want to get the feedback. We're fine including those areas.

Tess: sympathetic to concerns that this is going to gt scrutiny from a lot of different perspectives. Even when we get to th efinal draft we're not going to make everybody happy. THe question here is, this is the fpwd, this is our starting point for that engagement with the outside world, not the ending point. If there's something in there we think all engagement we'd get would be disruptive and counter productive, then okay let's take that out. But if there isn't anything like that, and sure there's a lot that will generate feedback but i'ts going to be a good discussion, we should leave that in.

Nick: thank you. We want feedback, even though there are things where I have concerns or disagreements, I think it is at the stage of being a good time for more feedback, not embarassing or disruptive.

Dan: the PR that changes the status, shall we agree to merge?

Jeffrey: not sure about change to the shortname. Odd to call this 'privacy'.

Dan: i think we should call it privacy-principles

Nick: pr says `w3.org/privacy` ..

Tess: that sounds bad. Should be /TR

Jeffrey: I'll edit shortname to privacy-principles and merge Robin's change. The rest is a respec bug.

Wendy: manual edit before submitting for publication.

Nick: editorial things.. formatting issue in 1.2.2.

Jeffrey: yep

Dan: when this becomes available I'll send a note to the AC Forum

Tess: can you cc PING and Privacy-CG?

Dan: yep

Jeffrey: Tess explained the state of the document really well. I want to make sure that's included in your announcement. "This is the starting point.."

Dan: I'll draft announcement for input before sending

Nick: question about balance and conflict... Wendy had this good text about principles aren't in conflict but responses to them are in conflict, but earlier in the doc we say principles might be in conflict. It's not a constructive framing.

Tess: that's a great point. Be good to tighten up that language in the EWP as well to defend against that concern

Dan: the wording you like is?

Nick: I don't like balancing as the fragment ID, but:

> While privacy principles are designed to work together and support each other, occasionally a proposal to improve how a system follows one privacy principle may reduce how well it follows another principle.

Tess: not that the principles themselves are conflicting, but an attempt to address one of them can be.

Dan: should we be signposting this section earlier? Like where we talk about.. first use of 'conflict' comes in how this document fits in, which is underneath the status of the doc. Intro. We could link directly down to the balance section. Would that help?

Jeffrey: probably better wording we could use in how this document fits in. Its subject is different from incorporating privacy principles.. this is about when a proposal to improve privacy hurts another of the ethical principles, so linking doesen't make sense, but we can ... I do want to register my concern that I don't think it's possible to always fix all proposals, we do run into tradeoffs and have to sacrifice one thing in order to get another thing.

Nick: this is a subtle point. I don't think your conclusion there is inconsistent with the idea that it's not principles that are in conflict. 

Jeffrey: the principles drive us to propose certain changes and thos echanges might harm other principles.

Nick: you have good text in there.. it might be that pushed a long way that there are cases we can't come up with a proposal that always equally supports each principle. But it's more constructive to think about the impacts of a proposal on multiple principles and potentialy tradeoffs as opposed to tradeoffs between principles.

Jeffrey: happy with that

Pete: would be good to establish some hierarchy of principles?

Jeffrey: having some way to guide the design of proposals, to weigh their affect on different principles would be realy useful. Similar to priority of constituencies, sometimes a small harm to a one group can be justified by a large benefit to a lower priority group. Even when we write down a hierarchy it's never going to be completely absolute. But hierarchy will still help with discussions o fprinciples.

Nick: likely to be something besides priority of constituencies?

Tess: If I remember, david baron has a PR or an issue in the design principles doc about that tension in priority of constituencies.

Dan: we can bring it to next week's TAG agenda

Pete: you could imagine a case where even within a single constituency, it's important to protect someone's security over privacy, or convenience over privacy, or some combination.

Nick: I can see that the priority of constituencies wouldn't solve everything. It seems like it would ...

Amy: in EWP we deliberately didn't do that because it's very context dependant what you might want to trade off, and made that explicit

Dan: anyone outside of W3C community we need to make aware? Privacy researchers? ORG? EFF? Campaign for additional feedback, or too early?

Pete: PEARG doing similar things

Dan: a blog might be a good idea. We have a TAG blog. Good for a more informal thing in w3c space that explains the context of something, that isn't a post on a mailing list.

Nick: as individuals or organisations?

Dan: yeah

Christine: IAPP


