# TAG Privacy TF Call - Wed, 01 June 2022
 
 Present: Wendy, Nick, Pete, Don, Tess, Robin
 Regrets: Dan
 
## Agenda

Where we're going, we don't need agendasâ€¦


### deployability and monitoring: https://github.com/w3ctag/design-principles/issues/368

PS: We should chat to Yoav about whether that might make more sense here.

RB: I'll suggest that in the issue.

Nick: it could be reasonable that there might be some kind of measurement data that people would be okay with, or might consent to, or even some collective governance. There is plausibly some data that could be shared under some conditions.

Pete: I don't disagree with any of that, but should and conditions are doing a lot of work there. So long as there is a significant group of people who don't want this it shouldn't be the default and we should be doing the work to figure out what the conditions are that constrain the principle.

Nick: I agree that something should be written about this.

Pete: Jeffrey took an action on this I think.

Robin: We should be mindful of not letting editors take on too much work.

Nick: I can take a stab at it.

Pete: We should ask Shubie's input too. Nick: +1.

Robin: This issue connects well with our discussion of whether telemetry should be permissible.

### Feedback

Robin: not a lot of feedback, some tone/structure conversation via mnot

generally positive review from patcg, useful foundation for other work there

Nick: Do we want to be more active?

Robin: I think the question is at what point we reach out to constituencies that aren't the usual ones?

Nick: I want to do it but we might need it to be more fleshed out.

Robin: That might be a way to pare down the issues list and prioritise what we should do.

Nick: I think a good focus would be to write the sections that aren't written. We need better than "we know that's an issue." particularly, for example, on vulnerable people

### Vulnerable People

Nick: Is anyone working on this?

Tess: I'm doing a lot of research and at some point I will write something!
